1)What is Angular?

Answer:

 Angular is a TypeScript-based open-source web application framework, developed and maintained by Google.

It offers an easy and powerful way of building front end web-based applications.

Angular integrates a range of features like declarative templates, dependency injection, end-to-end tooling, etc.

 that facilitates web application development.

 

2)Define the ng-content Directive?

Answer:

  Conventional HTML elements have some content between the tags.

Ex: <p>Put your paragraph here</p>

 

3)Define the ng-template Directive?

Answer:

 As the name suggests the <ng-template> is a template element that Angular uses with 
 structural directives (*ngIf, *ngFor, [ngSwitch] and custom directives).

These template elements only work in the presence of structural directives. 
Angular wraps the host element  inside <ng-template> and consumes the <ng-template> in the finished DOM by replacing 
it with diagnostic comments.

Ex:<ng-template> </ng-template>

 

4)Please explain the various features of Angular.

Answer:

 There are several features of Angular that makes it an ideal front end JavaScript framework. 
 Most important of them are described as follows:

1)Accessibility Applications:

Angular allows creating accessible applications using ARIA-enabled components, built-in a11y test infrastructure,
 and developer guides.

2)Angular CLI:

Angular provides support for "command line interface tools". These tools can be used for adding components, testing, 
instant deploying, etc.

3)Animation Support:

Angularos intuitive API allows the creation of high-performance, complex animation timelines with very little code.

4)Cross-Platform App Development

Angular can be used for building an efficient and powerful desktop, native, and progressive web apps.

 Angular provides support for building native mobile applications using Cordova, Ionic, or NativeScript.

Angular allows creating high performance, offline, and zero-step installation progressive web apps using modern 
web platform capabilities.

 The popular JS framework can also be used for building desktop apps for Linux, macOS, and Windows.

5)Code Generation

Angular is able to convert templates into highly-optimized code for modern JavaScript virtual machines.

6)Code Splitting

With the new Component Router, Angular apps load quickly.

The Component Router offers automatic code-splitting so that only the code required to render the view that is requested 
by a user is loaded.

7)Synergy with Popular Code Editors and IDEs

Angular offers code completion, instant errors, etc. with popular source code editors and IDEs.

8)Templates

Allows creating UI views with a simple and powerful template syntax.

9)Testing

Angular lets you carry out frequent unit tests using Karma. The Protractor allows running faster scenario tests in a stable way.

 

5)Could you explain services in Angular?

Answer:

  Singleton objects in Angular that get instantiated only once during the lifetime of an application are called services.

  An Angular service contains methods that maintain the data throughout the life of an application.

  The primary intent of an Angular service is to organize as well as share business logic, models, or data and functions 
  with various components of an Angular application.

The functions offered by an Angular service can be invoked from any Angular component, such as a controller or directive.

 

6)Discuss the advantages and disadvantages of using Angular?

Answer:

  Following are the various advantages of using Angular:

  1)Ability to add a custom directive

  2)Exceptional community support

  3)Facilitates client and server communication

  4)Features strong features, such as Animation and Event Handlers

  5)Follows the MVC pattern architecture

  6)Offers support for static template and Angular template

  7)Support for two-way data-binding

  8)Supports dependency injection, RESTful services, and validations

  Disadvantages of using Angular are enumerated as follows:

  1)Complex SPAs can be inconvenient and laggy to use due to their size

  2)Dynamic applications do not always perform well

  3)Learning Angular requires a decent effort and time

 

7)Enumerate some salient features of Angular 7.

Answer:

 Unlike the previous versions of Angular, the 7th major release comes with splitting in @angular/core.

This is done in order to reduce the size of the same. Typically, not each and every module is required by an Angular developer.

 Therefore, in Angular 7 each split of the @angular/core will have no more than 418 modules.

 

Also, Angular 7 brings drag-and-drop and virtual scrolling into play. The latter enables loading as well as unloading elements
 from the DOM.

 For virtual scrolling, the latest version of Angular comes with the <cdk-virtual-scroll-viewport> package.

 Furthermore, Angular 7 comes with a new and enhanced version of the ng-compiler.

 

8)What is string interpolation in Angular?

Answer:

 Also referred to as moustache syntax, string interpolation in Angular refers to a special type of syntax 
 that makes use of template expressions in order to display the component data.

These template expressions are enclosed within "double curly braces" i.e. {{ }}.

The JavaScript expressions that are to be executed by Angular are added within the curly braces and the corresponding 
output is embedded into the HTML code.

Typically, these expressions are updated and registered like watches as a part of the digest cycle.

 

9)Explain Angular Authentication and Authorization.

Answer:

 Authentication:

 The user login credentials are passed to an authenticate API, which is present on the server.

 Post server-side validation of the credentials, a JWT (JSON Web Token) is returned.

 The JWT has information or attributes regarding the current user. The user is then identified with the given JWT.

 This is called authentication.

 

Authorization:

The level of access is authorization. Post logging-in successfully, different users have a different level of access.

 While some may access everything, access for others might be restricted to only some resources.


10)Can you explain the concept of scope hierarchy in Angular?

Answer:

 Angular organizes the $scope objects into a hierarchy that is typically used by views. This is known as the scope hierarchy 
 in Angular.

It has a root scope that can further contain one or several scopes called child scopes.

In a scope hierarchy, each view has its own $scope.

Hence, the variables set by a viewos view controller will remain hidden to other view controllers.


 Following is a typical representation of a Scope Hierarchy:

Root $scope

  $scope for Controller 1

  $scope for Controller 2

  …

  ..

  .

  $scope for Controller n

 

11)How to generate a class in Angular 7 using CLI?

Answer:

ng generate class Dummy [options]

This will generate a class named Dummy.

 

12)Please explain the difference between Angular and AngularJS?

Answer:

 Various differences between Angular and AngularJS are stated as follows:

Architecture  AngularJS supports the MVC design model. Angular relies on components and directives instead

Dependency Injection (DI) AngularJS does not support DI. Angular supports a hierarchical Dependency Injection 
with unidirectional tree-based change detection. 

Expression Syntax  In AngularJS, a specific ng directive is required for the image or property and an event.
 Angular, on the other hand, use () and [] for blinding an event and accomplishing property binding, respectively

Mobile Support  AngularJS does not have mobile support while Angular does have

Recommended Language  While JavaScript is the recommended language for AngularJS, TypeScript is the recommended language 
for Angular

Routing  For routing, AngularJS uses $routeprovider.when() whereas Angular uses @RouteConfig{(…)}

Speed  The development effort and time are reduced significantly thanks to support for two-way data binding in AngularJS.
 Nonetheless, Angular is faster thanks to upgraded features

Structure  With a simplified structure, Angular makes the development and maintenance of large applications easier. 
Comparatively, AngularJS has a less manageable structure

Support  No official support or updates are available for the AngularJS. On the contrary, Angular has active support with 
updates rolling out every now and then


13)Could you explain the concept of templates in Angular?

Answer:

 Written with HTML, templates in Angular contains Angular-specific attributes and elements.

Combined with information coming from the controller and model, templates are then further rendered to cater the user
 with the dynamic view.

 

14) What are directives in Angular?

Answer:

 Directives are one of the core features of Angular. They allow an Angular developer to write new, 
 application-specific HTML syntax.

In actual, directives are functions that are executed by the Angular compiler when the same finds them in the DOM.

 Directives are of three types:

1) Attribute Directives   Ex: ngClass,ngStyle

2) Component Directives   Ex: Dropdown, Highliter like any user defined name.

3) Structural Directives  Ex: *ngIf,*ngFor,*ngSwitch

 

15)What are the building blocks of Angular?

Answer:

 There are essentially 9 building blocks of an Angular application. These are:

1)Components:

  A component controls one or more views. Each view is some specific section of the screen.

  Every Angular application has at least one component, known as the root component. It is bootstrapped inside the main module,
   known as the root module.

  A component contains application logic defined inside a class. This class is responsible for interacting with the view via
   an API of properties and methods.

2)Data Binding:

  The mechanism by which parts of a template coordinates with parts of a component is known as data binding.

  In order to let Angular know how to connect both sides (template and its component), the binding markup is added to 
  the template HTML.

3)Dependency Injection (DI):

  Angular makes use of DI to provide required dependencies to new components. Typically, dependencies required by 
  a component are services.
  A componentos constructor parameters tell Angular about the services that a component requires. 
  So, a dependency injection offers a way to supply fully-formed dependencies required by a new instance of a class.

4)Directives:

 The templates used by Angular are dynamic in nature. Directives are responsible for instructing Angular about how to 
 transform the DOM when rendering a template.

 Actually, components are directives with a template. Other types of directives are attribute and structural directives.

5)Metadata:

 In order to let Angular know how to process a class, metadata is attached to the class. For doing so decorators are used.

6)Modules:

 Also known as NgModules, a module is an organized block of code with a specific set of capabilities. It has a specific
  application domain or a workflow.

Like components, any Angular application has at least one module. This is known as the root module. Typically, an Angular 
application has several modules.

7)Routing:

 An Angular router is responsible for interpreting a browser URL as an instruction to navigate to a client-generated view.

 The router is bound to links on a page to tell Angular to navigate the application view when a user clicks on it.

8)Services:

  A very broad category, a service can be anything ranging from a value and function to a feature that is required 
  by an Angular app.

  Technically, a service is a class with a well-defined purpose.

9)Template:

 Each componentos view is associated with its companion template.

 A template in Angular is a form of HTML tags that lets Angular know that how it is meant to render the component.


16)Please explain the differences between Angular and jQuery?

Answer:

 The single biggest difference between Angular and jQuery is that while the former is a JS frontend framework, 
 the latter is a JS library.

Despite this, there are some similarities between the two, such as both features DOM manipulation and provides 
support for animation.

Nonetheless, notable differences between Angular and jQuery are:

1)Angular has two-way data binding, jQuery does not

2)Angular provides support for RESTful API while jQuery doesnot

3)jQuery doesnot offer deep linking routing though Angular supports it

4)There is no form validation in jQuery whereas it is present in Angular

 
17)Could you explain the difference between Angular expressions and JavaScript expressions?

Answer:

 Although both Angular expressions and JavaScript expressions can contain literals, operators, and variables, 
 there are some notable dissimilarities between the two.

Important differences between Angular expressions and JavaScript expressions are enlisted below:

1)Angular expressions support filters while JavaScript expressions do not

2)It is possible to write Angular expressions inside the HTML tags. JavaScript expressions, 
contrarily, canot  be written inside the HTML tags

3)While JavaScript expressions support conditionals, exceptions, and loops, Angular expressions do not


18)What is Angular Material?

Answer: It is a UI component library. Angular Material helps in creating attractive, consistent, and fully functional
 web pages as well as web applications.

 It does so while following modern web design principles, including browser portability and graceful degradation.


19)What is AOT (Ahead-Of-Time) Compilation?

Answer:

 Each Angular app gets compiled internally. The Angular compiler takes in the JS code, compiles it and then produces some JS code.

 This happens only once per occasion per user. It is known as AOT (Ahead-Of-Time) compilation.


20)What is Data Binding? How many ways it can be done?

Answer:

 In order to connect application data with the DOM (Data Object Model), data binding is used. 
 It happens between the template (HTML) and component (TypeScript). 
 There are 3 ways to achieve data binding:

1) Event Binding  Enables the application to respond to user input in the target environment

2) Property Binding  Enables interpolation of values computed from application data into the HTML

3) Two-way Binding  Changes made in the application state gets automatically reflected in the view and vice-versa.

  The ngModel directive is used for achieving this type of data binding.

 