What is JVM? Why is Java called the "Platform Independent Programming Language”?

A Java virtual machine (JVM) is a process virtual machine that can execute Java bytecode.

Each Java source file is compiled into a bytecode file, which is executed by the JVM. 
Java was designed to allow application programs to be built that could be run on any platform, without having to be rewritten or recompiled by the programmer for each separate platform.

A Java virtual machine makes this possible because it is aware of the specific instruction lengths and other particularities of the underlying hardware platform.

What are the two types of Exceptions in Java? Which are the differences between them?

Java has two types of exceptions: checked exceptions and unchecked exceptions.

Unchecked exceptions do not need to be declared in a method or a constructor’s throws clause if they can be thrown by the execution of the method or the constructor,
 and propagate outside the method or constructor boundary.

On the other hand, checked exceptions must be declared in a method or a constructor’s throws clause.


Comparable and Comparator both are interfaces and can be used to sort collection elements.
Comparable:	
1) Comparable provides a single sorting sequence. In other words, we can sort the collection on the basis of a single element such as id, name, and price.	
2) Comparable affects the original class, i.e., the actual class is modified.	
3) Comparable provides compareTo() method to sort elements.	
4) Comparable is present in java.lang package.	
5) We can sort the list elements of Comparable type by Collections.sort(List) method.	

Comparator:
1) The Comparator provides multiple sorting sequences. In other words, we can sort the collection on the basis of multiple elements such as id, name, and price etc.
2) Comparator doesn't affect the original class, i.e., the actual class is not modified.
3) Comparator provides compare() method to sort elements.
4) A Comparator is present in the java.util package.
5) We can sort the list elements of Comparator type by Collections.sort(List, Comparator) method.